there's over 200 ranking factors in
google's algorithm
so how the heck are you going to have
all the time to keep up with all of them
so you can improve your rankings and
your traffic there must be an easier way
or maybe even one report that you can
use to grow your traffic hey everyone
i'm neil patel and today i'm gonna break
down my favorite seo report
before i get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
the thing about seo is a lot of tools
out there have very similar reports and
features
and the feature i'm going to end up
breaking down i do it through ubersedus
because you can get it for free
or if you want to pay for it there's a
lot of other seo tools that also have
this feature
so i want you to go to neilpatel.com
ubersis
and put in your domain name
if you don't have a lot of traffic then
put in one of your competitors domains
that is much more popular if you're not
sure who one of your competitors would
be just do a google search so i did a
google search right here for seo and i
can put in moz for example because
they're ranking at the top and i know
that they'll get traffic but for this
example i put neilpatel.com because my
site gets traffic and i've been doing
seo for a while
and what i want you to do is click on
similar websites in the navigation
what this report here shows you all the
other websites who are similar to yours
now you'll find that some of these
websites aren't too similar and some of
them are
so as i'm going through them
i'm going to take out the ones that i
know aren't that similar like forbes
even though they rank for some of my
same keywords
i know they're not similar on everything
let's see here
backlinko ahrefs ad espresso not really
too similar word stream is semrush webfx
they could be but i'm not too familiar
with them sprout social i'm going to
remove
and then now i have a decent list of
competitors that i know that are similar
and i do compete with on a regular basis
even if they don't do the same exact
business as you if you know that they
talk about some of the same stuff and
they write similar blog posts in essence
you would consider them a competitor
because you're competing with them off
on google for some of the same search
terms
now what this report shows you is how
many keywords your site is getting
traffic for
and how many keywords your competitors
are getting so as you can see here
hubspot has 289
000 common keywords with me
but that doesn't mean
that i am identical to hubspot right
because i rank for keyword they don't
rank for and they rank for keywords that
i don't rank for but if i click view all
under common keywords like this under
hubspot this shows me all similar
keywords that they rank for that i also
rank for on google in the top 100
results
i actually want you to focus on keywords
gap what keywords gap is it shows you
all the keywords that your competitors
rank for that you don't rank for
and that's why this is my favorite seo
report the reason being is this gives me
a big list of new keywords that i should
be targeting that i may not be
so for example for hubspot i can click
view keywords gap click view wall
and it'll pull all the keywords now
sometimes it may take a few seconds to
load because there's a lot of keywords
for some of these sites and you know it
does it's not a snap of the finger to
just load 1.2 million keywords
and what you'll find is that some of the
keywords that your competitors rank for
is
not really relevant for your company
like how to get your contacts hubspot
offers an email tool i don't really care
to go after that or how to get your
first client as a financial advisor
don't care about that too much
so then i'll just keep clicking next
next next
and as you click next you'll see more
keywords on the list of that 1.2 million
and i'm gonna keep going so i don't care
about email marketing trends in 2018
because that's kind of old or emotional
commercials in 2019
but i may care about embedding html and
google sites i may care about
you know uh let's see
no
let me click next
and again as you go through this
it's you're gonna have to dig through
the results it's not as simple as just
downloading all of them you could but
you're gonna find a lot of irrelevant
ones
uh woocommerce marketplace themes
yes i would probably go after this
keyword because anyone who's doing
ecommerce you know they could be ideal
client for my ad agency np digital
and i would just keep going next next
next and i would make a list
of all the keywords that my competitors
rank for that i don't and then i want to
use that to come up with a list of
keywords that i should be going after
that are relevant for my business like
again i wouldn't want to rank for
two-factor authentication options but i
would want to rank for long scroll
website examples the reason being is we
offer conversion optimization services
at my ad agency np digital and some
people may be looking for
long
sales letter type web pages and i can
use that to potentially get more leads
or types of demand in marketing
you know if people are looking for
demand marketing or inbound marketing uh
or unknown contacts on facebook
messenger not too relevant but maybe
somewhat
and i would do this for a lot of my
competitors so here's now me doing this
with um
actually let me put word stream so as
you can see here i click view all this
is for keywords gap uh google voice i
should try to rank for that
uh
let's see what else google trends should
try to rank for that
let me click next
sell on amazon definitely want to rank
for that because we offer amazon
marketing services at my ad agency
let's see
google maps directions nope history of
google nope
facebook mobile
too generic of a keyword ad blocker
definitely not competition online words
so i'm going to keep going
don't care for free photoshop
uh office supplies me or me nope
uh instagram stories i probably want to
create articles around instagram stories
because there's just so much traffic
around that and a lot of our clients use
instagram stories
uh facebook business manager definitely
want to talk about that because i can
teach our audience how to use it which
would be great because anyone who's
looking to learn how to use business
manager i can just say hey instead of
learning how to use bizmatter just hire
np digital where we'll do it all for you
so you don't have to learn it so i can
add that call to action so if i do this
for every single one of my competitors
and i'm going to click view all again to
close it and i do it for all the
competitors that are relevant what ends
up happening is i'll now have a massive
list of keywords that i should be going
after
that i want other people to find me for
or new people to find me for that my
competition ranks for and i don't that's
why this is my favorite seo report and
then you would just go and create
content around those topics
and if you're not familiar with hey what
kind of content should i create around
those topics you just google them so one
of the keywords was facebook business
manager
so when i googled facebook business
manager there's facebook
uh there's hootsuite example how to use
facebook business manager
and this could be a great example of all
right what kind of content do i need to
create if
i want to rank at the top
and if you do this for all those
keywords you'll get an idea of what you
need to do to get more traffic from new
keywords
so that's it i recommend that you check
out that report it's really easy to use
there's a free version of it as well
and if you have any questions you can
leave a comment below and i'll do my
best to help you out if you just want my
team to do all this for you check out my
ad agency np digital if you enjoy the
video like it share it tell the people
about it thank you for watching